[MUSIC]
This lecture we'll talk about
the pervasive nature of IoT.
The fact that IoT is everywhere,
[LAUGH] and
even though we're not necessarily
aware of it all the time.
It's there and it's helpful,
generally helpful.
So not only is it everywhere,
it's also networked.
So it gives you access to all these
abilities, all these features of things
that are in the network and
it gives you access to them at all times.
So it's sort of a constant connection.
So there are a lot of abilities to that,
it makes it very powerful.
So first, a lot of what you
can think of as IoT devices,
you can see them as an interface
to the Cloud, right?
By the Cloud, I mean big,
powerful compute servers
that are accessed through the Internet,
so we'll call it the Cloud.
And these compute servers can
do a variety of things for you.
And we can see that devices,
small devices,
IoT devices, are basically
a window to these Cloud servers.
So take Siri, Siri's an example
we're talking about here.
You can see that as a window into
the Cloud servers that have
gigantic databases of information.
So you can ask Siri some question,
it will go search for
the answer inside some massive cloud
database and give you the answer back.
So really your IoT device in
that sense is just a window
into some massive computational resource.
So not everything is going
on on your IoT device.
So say we're talking
about Siri specifically,
your phone has to do some computation,
speech-to-text, right?
It has to figure out what you're saying.
But the actual query that you state,
that's not actually processed
directly on the phone.
That thing is sent to the Cloud,
and the Cloud processes it,
gives you the result and
Siri recites it back to you.
So you can see that these IoT
devices actually give you,
they leverage a much bigger set
of servers that are available out
there on the Cloud if you want them to.
For instance, viewing movies,
say Netflix, something like that,
the movies aren't sitting there on
your phone or whatever the device is.
The movies, your phone, or
whatever the IoT device is is really
a conduit for viewing the movie, right?
You're really going to some big servers,
Netflix servers.
You're streaming the movie
directly off of those servers.
So your device is in some ways just
a conduit to something much more powerful
than your actual IoT device.
So there are a lot of IoT devices
that act in that way that are just
access points for something much
bigger out there in the Cloud.
So this is basically leveraging the
networking features of these IoT devices.
So that basically just what I was saying,
you can access these large databases,
large computational service to get,
whatever access to whatever kind of data
you wanna get, and to do,
perform things that you wanna perform,
format operations that you
need to form remotely.
So, IoT is also pervasive.
Since networking is pervasive, IoT is
pervasive, which means it is everywhere.
It is embedded in devices and
you're not necessarily aware of that, but
they're are all over the place and if you
just look around whatever room you're in,
you'll probably see these devices.
I mean, of course, I'm staring down a
camera right now, so that's an IoT device.
There are cameras all over,
microphones and all this,
projectors, things like this.
They're all in this room.
My watch, my phone, they're all over
the place just helping me in various ways.
So if you look at your house, you think
about inside your house, how many
computers you have inside of your house,
traditional computers, laptop, desktop.
I probably have probably four or
five laptop, desktop machines in my house.
But if I think of how many IoT
devices I have, a lot more, right.
I just, see my DVR, right, my fridge,
my microwave oven, my TV,
my game machine, right?
My several, I have several.
[LAUGH] I have XBox One.
I have all these.
So I have my watch, my phones,
my kids' phones, right?
There's so
many IoT devices just everywhere.
Home automation systems, I do not
have a home automation system, but
that's a common use.
Home automation systems that
are connected to the network, so you can,
you've probably seen commercials
on this type of thing.
You can go to your cell phone and turn off
your lights at home from your cell phone,
things like this, right.
So, IoT devices are pervasive and
they're just everywhere.
At work, too, so, at home, at work.
At work, well, my work,
we have motion sensors in every room.
For lighting, right,
to save the power on lights, the lights
go off if there's no motion in the room.
So they have motion sensors in every room,
down every hall,
checking to see if something's moving and
if they need to keep the lights off or on.
And you've probably been
in places like that.
Also RFID tags.
I need an RFID tag to get
into my building, right.
I run it past the machine and
it lets me in.
So there's also this type of,
my phone, that's another thing.
My phone, phones nowadays,
there's cell phones.
But there's also even desktop phones
nowadays are in Internet things devices,
right, cuz these are Voice-over IP phones.
My phone is a networked phone.
It sends data over the Internet directly.
It doesn't even use
the regular phone system.
It goes straight to the Internet, right.
So phones, everything, lots of different
devices are IoT devices, even at work.
Also on your person, so
these things are now integrated
into your body in some sense.
So hopefully, not too close.
But health trackers, right, these
things are strapped onto your wrist and
they can track heart rate, all sorts
of features they can track about you.
And they're strapped onto you,
they are networked.
So by Bluetooth,
they go to the Internet and
maybe send that information to a server,
to a global server.
And if you have one of these things,
like a Fitbit or
something like that,
you know how they work.
Pacemakers, oh, those are the ultimate.
Those are literally embedded within
you and they control your heart.
Actually, pacemakers
are quite sophisticated.
They track your heart, but say your heart
stops, they can restart your heart.
They can give you a charge, right?
Give you a shock and
start that heart again automatically.
And they are also networked.
So you have to be able to program them,
reset them periodically.
So they are usually not
regularly networked but
when the doctor wants to reset it in
the office, he can do that by radio.
Insulin pumps, so these are common, too.
Actually, I knew a guy,
I meant to bring one to lecture today.
But I knew a guy, he had diabetes,
type 2, I believe,
but it was pretty severe, and
you need insulin injections.
What he had was a device like what you see
here where it would give the injections,
while during the day, it would sort
of inject him at the right rate.
And he had to have this under his shirt.
He had this device,
a device like what you see in there.
It was taped under his shirt.
And it would know how much insulin
to give him on a regular basis.
So he didn't have to do it,
it just gave it to him.
So diabetes is one of those things.
It's about regulation,
regulating the insulin level.
So your body normally does this.
If your pancreas is working,
it does this perfectly, right.
It senses how much sugar you
have in your bloodstream,
it puts in insulin in the right
dose to keep it level.
But if your pancreas isn't working,
then you have diabetes and
you need a device,
an external device, to do that.
Now you can do it manually or you can have
a device like these insulin pumps which
actually do it for you and they push
in the insulin at the appropriate rate.
So these things are basically
integrated into you, right?
Now cell phones are not
integrated into you, not quite,
they are not quite connected to your ear,
but I know a lot of people who cannot
leave their house without
their cell phone, right?
So you forget it, you're like,
look, I gotta go home,
I have to have that thing with me.
So it's not physically connected but
it might as well be.
All right, pervasive.
So other places, not even on your person,
but everywhere, on the streets, right?
So I watch TV.
I watch Law and Order a lot.
How many times have I seen the cops
in Law and Order, this is TV, but
using video surveillance devices,
you know, the ATM had a camera and
they used that to catch the crook, right.
There are devices all over the place
that are surveilling us for
beneficial purposes, okay.
Like traffic light cams, okay.
Now traffic light cams, it's beneficial,
right, they gotta ticket you.
I don't like it, right, but I can see the
social benefit to being able to track when
somebody runs a light and
giving people tickets.
Otherwise everybody would be
running lights all the time, right.
So that type of thing, that type of
surveillance, goes on all the time.
Actually In London,
their traffic cameras do more than that.
They actually track your
license plate numbers.
So they can track criminals by
looking at their license plate numbers
automatically as they're
going through the city.
So IoT is everywhere, in all sorts of
devices that you interact with every day.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]